first init

- There are many different flavors of SQL, but all of them follow the general
guidelines. We will be learning SQLite.

- Relational databases are databases where the fields (columns) of a database
exist as a key to another database.

- You can alias column names in SELECT with the AS keyword.
Like this:
SELECT city AS 'City'

- Double dashes are for single line comments, and /* */ are for multi line comments.

// Let's see if Pluralsight still works on our computer.

It works.



---INTRODUCTION TO SQL---

Databases help to keep your data secure (auth), backupable, shareable, and scalable.
DBMS are systems that manage databases. We speak to databases with SQL.
RDBMS are relational database management systems.
Redis and MongoDB don't use SQL. They are called NoSQL databases.

//timestamp: beginning of The Point of Every Database.

--The Point of Every DB
There might not just be one database at a company. It could be broken up
into many different ones, like a finance one, a HR one, etc. These different
databases might even have different languages that are used for each. The main point 
is that these diff databases can serve different function other than different
categories. Like a database for transactions happening right now, and a DB for
past records. Or a DB for data analytics. Companies may not have just one DB.

--Entities and Tables
For each project or company, there is a different need for a database. If it was
for mcdonald's, some of the entities (main ideas) of the database would be customers,
orders, products, etc. Each entity would have a table that stores the data.

--Rows and columns
When designing tables, we need to predetermine the amount of columns that
the table will have. DBMS keep it so that if you try to put data of a different
type than it was expecting inside of a column, it will reject it.

--Data Types
When talking about what values DBMS will support, some rules can be put in place.
For string data types, a fixed length, a variable length, and/or long text can 
be expected. For an integer value, a whole number, or float number can be expected.
It is easier to write queries on VARCHAR limited types than it is to do queries on
TEXT types. TEXT types are for descriptions, and we don't want to go around labeling
all the columns that will have strings in them as TEXT.

--Primary keys
A primary key column must contain unique values. The primary key is supposed
to take us to a specific row. Sometimes primary keys are already defined, like
a column for emails, or VIN numbers. If there isn't a natural primary key, we can
add one, like an index, or order number, or ID. The DB can increment that value
for each item put in. Primary key columns are usually identified by PK or some
icon.

--Foriegn keys and relationships
